today we're going to work our core so
get
ready to sweat oops sorry wrong core
hey we've traveled far and wide down to
the earth's inner core
and up into outer space but what if we
could combine these adventures
and find out what hides in the innards
of other planets and moons in the solar
system
with the help of this interstellar
hyperdrill we can achieve that at least
in part
coordinates are in all systems ready
and our first destination is
the moon our moon in fact we land on its
gray and desolate surface under the
black sky
no blue here because there's very little
atmosphere to disperse the light
the drill starts working and we first go
through the outer layer of the moon
the crust just like on earth we're on
the sunny side
so the thickness of this layer is only
43 miles
but where we deland on the dark side it
would be more than twice as thick
the moon is a rocky body so its crust is
largely made of silicon
iron aluminum calcium oxygen and
magnesium
with much smaller amounts of other
elements further down we find the mantle
and it's a long and tedious journey
through this layer is about
850 miles thick it gets hotter as we go
deeper
finding composite minerals peroxine and
olivine
they're made of iron silicon oxygen and
magnesium in different proportions
finally we break through the hard layers
and into the semi molten outer core
another journey of about 93 miles ahead
through this scalding swamp
and we dive into the iron ocean of the
liquid core shell
it's nearly 60 miles thick and the
molten metal threatens to evaporate us
but this drill was made to sustain an
extremely heavy onslaught
and that's how we finally come to a
sudden halt
in the deepest reaches of the moon
there's a solid iron core
which is 150 miles thick we could drill
through it
but it would be unnecessary so we just
set the flag here
and skip to the next planet on our
drilling list
and it's mercury it was hot deep inside
the moon
but on the surface of the smallest
planet in the system
it's even hotter that's because it's so
close to the sun
of course all right let's drill mercury
has a pretty thick outer shell which is
both crust
and mantle going about 250 miles deep
not the most fascinating journey it's
not unlike the earth in many respects
but then the drill stops ramming into a
solid metal wall
it's mercury's core which has a diameter
of over
2500 miles it takes up to 85 percent of
the planet's overall diameter
no use trying to drill through this one
it's fully metal and extremely dense
skipping to the next planet and we're on
mars now
oh look it's sunset here and the sun is
making the sky
hazy blue but you know the drill i mean
we're here to drill
so that's what we do mars's crust
is quite thin compared to earth's just
six to thirty miles deep
its composition is much the same though
iron aluminum calcium
potassium and magnesium that's one of
the reasons why humans are looking to
colonize
the red planet one day it's very similar
to our own
we're very quick to drill through the
first layer and the second one
the mantle is now upon us it's a hard
and rocky layer about 1100 miles thick
thanks to its size mars isn't
seismically active any longer
there's simply no magma boiling close
underneath the surface of the planet
making it silent and docile it's a long
dig but we finally come to a screeching
halt
bumping into the core a ball of iron
nickel and sulfur with a diameter of two
thousand to twenty six hundred miles
this core is bigger than that of mercury
but the planet itself is larger too
so it figures okay then our next stop is
even more interesting
because it's jupiter this gas giant has
amassed
twice that of all the other planets in
the solar system combined
and we landed right in the middle of an
ocean the ocean i dare say
it's the largest one in the whole system
and it's made of liquid hydrogen
the drill goes smoothly through the
surface of the planet because there's no
rock or hard metal here
only gas and liquid but the shaking
yikes
the pressure on this planet is more than
just huge it's
unimaginable the drill is barely able to
withstand it
and as it's going deeper the pressure's
becoming higher too
we've reached jupiter's core and it's
nearly too much to bear
the temperature here is about 90 000
degrees fahrenheit
and the core itself is not solid but
liquid as well
kept together by the immense pressure
from all sides
the drill starts to rattle bad sign
let's get out of here before
it breaks no winds
no pressure no heat all around us is a
vast
icy wasteland crisscrossed by ridges and
reddish bands
it's europa one of jupiter's most
promising moons
as we drill through the ice let me
explain europa
is one of the candidates to have
extraterrestrial life in the solar
system
and it can be found right beneath the
icy shell through which we're now
digging
it's only 10 to 15 miles thick well down
below is
an enormous saltwater ocean twice bigger
than
all of earth's oceans combined the
deepest point on earth is challenger
deep
and it's a bit over six miles down the
ocean on europa on the other hand
can be up to 100 miles deep who knows
what can be lurking in that deep dark
sea
anyway we travel fast through the water
and finally reach the bottom of the
ocean
the mantle starts here and it's made of
rock just like on earth
and not much deeper in we find the metal
core of the moon
europa is a little smaller than earth's
moon so it's no surprise
we reach its center pretty fast okay
skip drive on
let's go further oh i'd rather we drill
in as fast as we can
just look around it's blazing here we're
definitely on
eo another mode of jupiter and the most
volcanically active world in the solar
system
look that volcano is twice the size of
everest
and it's erupting right now thankfully
we're under eo's surface already
but that's not to say we're safe it's
all molten down here too
mostly yellow and brownish hue due to
the huge amounts of sulfur
the stench must be horrible anyway the
most peculiar feature
is that both inside and outside
everything's always on the move on eo
jupiter and its other moons create
tremendous tidal forces
making the surface of eos swell over 300
feet up and down
like the largest tsunamis on earth only
here it's not
water but rock the deeper we go the
calmer it gets though
until we're finally at the iron core
it's still hot here
but at least there's no shaking and
swelling like above
let's put up another flag and go to the
next point
and that would be saturn the second
largest planet of the solar system
and the one best known for its
spectacular rings
not the only one to have them at all
mind you but we'll get to it
now as you've surely noticed our drill
is simply
falling down through the gaseous
hydrogen and helium
making up most of the planet's surface
and atmosphere
no need to work here just wait and hope
the immense pressure
won't crush our drill to a hunk of junk
at last
the pressures become so enormous that we
find ourselves in the liquid hydrogen
and here we start diving soon we'll
reach the solid core of saturn
ah here we are it's made of iron and
nickel and is actually quite small
compared to the rest of the planet
well the last destination awaits so come
on
and here we come neptune the drill
immediately deploys anchors
because the winds here are extremely
powerful they reach speeds
five times greater than the most
devastating hurricanes on earth
neptune is covered in a pretty thin
layer of hydrogen and helium
just like saturn or jupiter but
underneath there's much more than that
it's hot windy and lonely here on the
outskirts of the solar system
so let's dig already beneath the gases
there's suddenly a bubbling hot mass of
water methane and ammonia
pew these substances are hot despite
neptune being called an ice giant
the name comes from its core deep inside
where we're quickly headed right now
a small ball of rock and ice sits all
alone
and despite the boiling temperatures
above the ice beneath
is ever coal